Q: What is the purpose of this course?

A: English 306 is an *introduction* to theory. It should be a a *survey* of theory with a strong historical emphasis and deep engagement with philosophical “primary texts” but assume no prior study in the field and no shared vocabulary. Thus, it should not be limited to one topic or “school” of theory or time period. Rather, it should begin with introductory texts that facilitate discussion around what theory is (e.g., selections from [Jonathan Culler’s Very Short Introduction to Literary Theory](https://academic.oup.com/book/462) or perhaps foundational texts from antiquity (Nico Israel uses the Norton Anthology's selections from Plato and from the book of Genesis). Then it would provide a survey, firmly rooted in classic twentieth-century texts with some material from the nineteenth century (e.g., Marx on ideology, Henry James on the novel genre) and certainly some texts from the past twenty years at the end. See the [FILES section of our group](http://cuny.is/theory-hunter) for examples; Jeff Allred's [syllabus](https://engl306spr23s3.commons.gc.cuny.edu) is open to Commons users, so check it out. 

Q: What are the differences between English 306 and English 252 (Introduction to Literary Studies)?

A: English 252 emphasizes basic skills in decoding literary critical arguments and constructing your own. It grows out of the close reading-centric emphasis of ENGL 220 and prepares students for more advanced seminars at the 300 level by focusing on the basics of research and writing in a given field, period, and subject. ENGL 306 is much more metacritical in focus and much less focused on the pragmatic aspects of building a particular argument around a particular literary text.

Q: How do you handle the "coverage" issue?

A: By its nature, theoretical writing is dense and difficult for novice students, and the web of centuries' worth of theoretical writing is bound to frustrate any student or instructor who wants to "cover" it in any given span of time. Some instructors tame the chaos by breaking the course into small units around "schools" of theory (semiotics, Marxism, queer theory, etc.) and/or stack the schools in ways that convey a historical evolution. Others create genealogical sequences to emphasize how authors borrow from and write back to each other throughout the historical development of theoretical discourse. The best starting point is to read thorugh a number of syllabi and/or reach out to peers to ask how and why they organize things as they do.

Q: How much writing do you assign, and what kind?

A: Frequent, low-stakes writing is a must. Many instructors assign short, informal responses (blog posts, Bb discussion board posts, or response papers) of 500-800 words, assigned roughly every other week. You might also try in-class writing, which sometimes diminishes the anxiety of oral participation for students. However you do it, it’s essential to have students devote time to engaging these formidable texts in writing. 

Q: What's the best way to assess learning in this course?

A: Most instructors emphasize exams over formal essays or research papers. Given the amount of material students must assimiliate and the dense interrelationships between texts that they must synthethize, a well-constructed exam with lots of writing helps them to produce mastery rather than just reflect it. See the examples from Jeff Allred and from Tanya Agathocleous in FILES. It's recommended to leave ample time for review prior to exams: some faculty ask students to bring X number of questions to class for a review session, or to draft sample questions. The review sessions are surprisingly productive, often, since students find that they finally "get" a given text only upon re-examining it in relation to other texts. For students who are especially motivated or precocious, consider allowing an opt-out of the final, substituting an original research project, reading some new theoretical texts or writing a modest research paper.

Q: Are there specific policies that must be incorporated into my syllabus?

A: Yes, please check the sample syllabi on the Academic commons group page. You must include the “Learning Outcomes” you deem appropriate for 306 along with the standard language for ADA Policy, Academic Integrity, and Policy on Sexual Misconduct. [Here's an example](https://engl306spr23s3.commons.gc.cuny.edu/syllabus/).

Q: What resources do I have access to as an instructor?

A: Please visit the [306 instructors’ group page](https://commons.gc.cuny.edu/groups/theoryhunter-resource-for-instructors-of-engl-306-at-hunter-college/) on the CUNY Academic Commons, where you will find sample syllabi, course units, and so on. I encourage you to post your own helpful documents to this page, and contact me if you have problems joining or using the group. [ACERT](https://acert.hunter.cuny.edu/), Hunter’s center for teaching and learning, is a lively hub linking instructors, librarians, ed tech specialists, etc.: their site has a wealth of teaching resources, and they host scores of events on pedagogy each year.

Q: What are my options in terms of “learning management systems” (LMS)? Do I have to use BlackBoard?!

A: You are free to use whatever you’re comfortable with. By default, all courses get Bb shells, which you are free to customize/use. But there are many alternatives, including free/open options based on the WordPress blogging platform. Instructors can now host course materials on CUNY Academic Commons sites like this one: there are hundreds of sites to browse there for inspiration. [Get started here](https://help.commons.gc.cuny.edu/why-teach-commons/) if you're interested.
